Without the Cross There Is No Resurrection

There are several reasons I can't stand hearing people say "follow your passion." For one, it's flabby, meaningless cliche. For another, studies show it's the surest way to be miserable and unsuccessful. 

But the biggest reason I hate the phrase "follow your passion," is that it means the opposite of what people think it means. 

Most think following ones passion means doing what you want to do. I love music, so I'll be a musician. Or, as Lilly Tomlin once said, "Imagine if we'd all become what we wanted to be when we grew up. I mean, imagine a world filled with nothing but firemen, cowboys, nurses, and ballerinas." 

When I hear "follow your passion," I think of Lilly Tomlin. 

Because we've been misled about the meaning of "passion," we get confused about the Passion of Christ. What better time than Holy Week to set the record straight and, I hope, strike "follow your passion" from the American lexicon. 

But first, the joys of Latin.

### Anima Christi

One of the most beautiful prayers I've ever heard is *Anima Christi* by St. Ignatius of Loyala. One verse pertains:

> *Passio Chrisi conforta me*

trans: *Passion of Christ strengthen me*

Or, from the Our Father (Lord's Prayer) in Latin:

> *Passus sub Pontio Pilto*

trans: *Suffered under Pontius Pilate*

As you can probably guess, 'passio' means 'suffering' in Latin. Christ's Passion was His suffering. He suffered for love of His Father's creatures. A perfect suffering. 

If you want to follow your passion, clean a toilet. Clean somebody else's toilet so they don't have to. That's getting closer to the real meaning of following one's passion. Imagine loving your neighbor so much that you'd clean his toilet for him. 

Following one's passion means doing what you detest for someone you love, not doing what you love and expecting someone else to support you while you do it. 

The nurse who works for 30 years in an emergency room despite detesting the site of blood is following her passion. 

The fire fighter who's detests heights but rescues a child from third floor of a burning building is following his passion. 

If it feels good while you're doing it, it's probably not a passion but a pleasure. 

Which brings us to this week in Coronavirus.

Without the Cross, there is no Resurrection. 

Without the Passion, there is no Salvation. 

The White House is warning e